Pass over `doc/manual/syntax.md` (#1254)
tweag/nickel: doc/manual/syntax.md

"Hello World"
```

Multiline string interpolation is "indentation-aware". This means that you can
interpolate a string containing multiple lines into another string with prefixed

> indentation and the result will be as expected:

Author: I've made the sentence a bit terser to rely more on the example afterwards 👍

```

This example is an excerpt of a Nix configuration written in Nickel, emulating

> Nix string contexts. Lines 4 to 8 define a symbolic string. The values

Author: That's a very good point. It won't have line numbers on the website.

#### Enum tags

Enumeration tags are used to express a choice among finitely many alternatives.
They are formed by writing a backtick `` ` `` followed by any valid identifier
or by a quoted string. For example, `std.serialize` takes an export format as a
first argument, which is an enum tag among `` `Json ``, `` `Toml `` or `` `Yaml
``:

```nickel
> std.serialize `Json {foo = 1}
"{
   \"foo\": 1
 }"

> std.serialize `Toml {foo = 1}
"foo = 1
"
```

An enum tag `` `foo `` is serialized as the string `"foo"`:

```nickel

> > std.serialize `Yaml {foo = `bar}

Reviewer: Nitpick: maybe JSON would actually do a better job at showing that it is a string

[ 1, 2, 3 ]
```

### Records

Records are key-value storage, or in Nickel terms, field-value storage. They
are delimited by `{` and `}`, and elements are separated with `,`. A field
definition is written as `field = value`. The fields are strings, but can be

> written without quotes `"` if they would be valid identifiers. Values can be of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
written without quotes `"` if they are valid identifiers. Values can be of
```

### Let-In

> Let-in allows binding an expression to a variable. It is used like `let <rec?>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `let` binds an expression to a variable. It is used like `let <rec?>
```

> <ident> = <expr> in <expr>`. The `rec` keyword in Let-in constructs allows the
> let binding to become recursive, enabling the use of `<ident>` within the bound

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<ident> = <expr> in <expr>`. The `rec` keyword makes the binding recursive,
enabling the use of `<ident>` within the bound
```

34

> let rec repeat = fun n x => if n <= 0 then [] else repeat (n - 1) x @ [x] in
    repeat 3 "foo"
["foo", "foo", "foo"]
```

## Functions

A function is declared using the `fun` keyword, then arguments separated with
spaces, and finally an arrow `=>` to add the body of the function. To call a
function, just write the arguments after it separated with spaces. Functions in

> Nickel are curried: A function taking multiple arguments is actually a function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nickel are curried: a function taking multiple arguments is actually a function
```

## Annotations

Contract and type annotations help enforce additional properties of an
expression. They can be attached to any Nickel expression. See [the correctness
section](./correctness.md) for more details.

### Type annotations

A type annotation is introduced using `<expr> : <type>` and serves to delimit
a statically typed block which will be checked by the typechecker before
evaluation. A type annotation can be directly attached to the variable of a let-
binding `let <var> : <type> = <expr> in <body>` or to a record field declaration
`{<field> : <type> = <value>}` as well.

A type wildcard `_` indicates that part of a type is unknown to the user (or
is not worth spelling out). The typechecker will attempt to infer it. Adding a

> wildcard type annotaiton `: _` to an existing expression is particulary useful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wildcard type annotation `: _` to an existing expression is particularly useful
```

A record literal is a record type if:

- No field has a defined value: there are only fields without definition.
- Each field has exactly one type annotation
- Each field doesn't have any other metadata attached (see [Metadata](#metadata))

If these properties are satisfied, a record literal is considered to be a
record type by the typechecker.

> A record literal which is to be interpreted as a record type may have a *record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A record literal which is interpreted as a record type may have a *record
```

> {foo.bar = 1, baz = 2} : {foo: {bar : Number}, baz : Number}
{ baz = 2, foo = { bar = 1 } }

> The right-hand side is missing a type annotation for baz, so it isn't a

Reviewer: It's a bit strange to mix plain text english inside a seemingly REPL session

Author: So, you'd prefer the comments? Or should we try to reformulate the entire example?

Reviewer: In fact, I don't know, maybe it's fine. Or maybe as you did (comment before the example), but still prefixing them with `#`? I know it doesn't correspond to anything anymore (it's not really an REPL prompt nor a valid Nickel file nor plain English), but it might at least make the distinction between code, comment and result of the evaluation of the code clearer?

Author: I was a bit worried about breaking up the flow of the examples by interspersing prose outside of the code block, but maybe that's not such a bad thing anyway. In fact, I like the rendering on the website with smaller code blocks more.

Reviewer: In any case, I just wanted to share my feeling, but I have no strong opinion either and I trust you to keep what you think is best, including the original presentation.
